# 2020-04-02

## Agenda

* Introduction of the attendees;
* Discussion of the goals of this CG;
* Discussing plans that each blockchain project has for using WebAssembly;
* Proposals for the format.

Optional:
* Short and long-term plans of `pwasm-utils`;
* Fee model and chromatic metering;
* Different approaches to gas injection.


## Notes

* Near
* Parity. Plans for Wasm -- trustless, trustfull execution. Trustful for the runtime. Trustless for contracts. Started with Wasmi, integrated with Wasmtime, started playing with Wasmer. Common API is not really important, its really easy to integrate different APIs into to the runtime. Important to own the dependencies. Open to integrating Wasmer. Parity tools that external people an contribute to:
  * instrumentation tools, pwasm-utils;
  * streaming instrumentation might be too specific to Parity needs;
  * testing infrastructure.
* Cosmwasm. Testing infra seems very valuable. Need to know how much we can trust certain backends. We need to have a corpus of tests, e.g. the compilation tests at most that much memory, or that many operations, etc. Might be interested in trustful for trusted participants, in the context of governance. Community voted code that can be run using optimization compiler. Note from Sergei, community voted code works only with code sharing. Would work good with common libraries, like safe math, etc. Could also work for pre-metered code that does not use gas injection. That would require dynamic linking though, which is not there yet. Cosmwasm is interested in using lightbeam with Wasmer. Trying to be cosm-agnostic.


AssemblyScript:
* Cosmwasm. Would be interested in AS libraries. Also looked into Kotlin, tiny-Go. Ask Simon;
* Parity. Would be useful to join.

Suggestion for next call agenda:
* Fuzz testing
* Matrix

Then (Ethan interested to host):
* Fee model. Discuss existing research;
* Non-Rust to Wasm language. Share experience.

Pre-condition for recurrent calls: have agenda, topics discussed.

Telegram group, create an organization for this repo and code, public calendar.

Host is responsible for preparation, the work needs to be done before the meeting.

Bring more blockchains based on the topic. We need something to show.
